#When the time approached for Israel to die

This speaks about time as if it travels and comes to a place. AT: "When it was almost time for Israel to die" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#If now I have found favor in your sight

Here "sight" stands for thoughts or opinions. AT: "If I have found favor with you" or "If I have pleased you" (UDB)

#now

This does not mean "at this moment," but is used to draw attention to the important point that follows.

#find favor

This means that someone is approved of by someone else. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_idiom]])

#put your hand under my thigh

This act is a sign of making a serious promise. See how you translated this in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:24:01|24:2]]. (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:translate_symaction]])

#show me faithfulness and trustworthiness

The abstract nouns "faithfulness" and "trustworthiness" can be translated as adjectives. AT: "treat me in a faithful and trustworthy manner" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_abstractnouns]])

#Please do not bury me in Egypt

The word "please" adds emphasis to this request.

#When I sleep with my fathers

Here "sleep" is a polite way to refer to dying. AT: "when I die and join my family members who died before me" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_euphemism]])

#with my fathers

This means that when Jacob dies, his soul will go to the same place where his ancestors are.

#Swear to me

"promise me" or "make an oath to me"

#swore to him

"promised him" or "made an oath to him"

#Israel bowed down at the head of his bed

Possible meanings are 1) "Jacob bowed down his head in bed" (ULB) or 2) Jacob turned over in bed and prostrated himself on the bed (UDB) or 3) "Jacob bowed down while leaning on his walking stick" (Septuagint).