#The angel of Yahweh

See how you translated this in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:22:11|22:11]].

#a second time

The word "second" is an ordinal number. AT: "again" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:translate_ordinal]])

#from heaven

Here the word "heaven" refers to the place where God lives.

#and said—this is an oracle of Yahweh

This is a formal way of saying that the words that follow come directly from Yahweh. AT: "and spoke this message from Yahweh" or "and declared these words of Yahweh"

#By myself I have sworn

The term "swear by" means to use the name of something or someone as the basis or power on which the oath is made. There is nothing more powerful for Yahweh to swear by than himself. AT: "I have promised and I am my witness"

#you have done this thing

"you obeyed me"

#have not withheld your son

"have not kept back your son." This can be stated in positive form. AT: "were willing to offer your son to me"

#your son, your only son

See how you translated this in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:22:01|22:2]].

#surely bless

"certainly bless"

#I will greatly multiply your descendants

"I will cause your descendants to increase again and again" or "I will cause your descendants to be very many"

#as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand which is upon the seashore

God compared Abraham's descendants to the stars and the sand. Just as people cannot count the huge number of stars or the grains of sand, so there would be so many of Abraham's descendants that people would not be able to count them. AT: "beyond what you can count" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_simile]])

#as the stars of the heavens

Here the word "heavens" refers to everything we see above the earth, including the sun, moon, and stars.

#will possess the gate of their enemies

Here "gate" stands for the whole city. And, to "possess the gate of their enemies" stands for destroying their enemies. AT: "will completely triumph over their enemies" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_synecdoche]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])