#Now

This word is used here to mark a break in the main storyline. Here the author starts to tell a new part of the story.

#old, well advanced in years

The words "old" and "well advanced in years" mean the same thing. The two of them together emphasize that Abraham was "very old." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_doublet]])

#well advanced in years

This is an idiom that means "very old." (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_idiom]])

#Put your hand under my thigh

Abraham was about to ask the servant to swear to do something. Putting his hand under Abraham's thigh would show that he would certainly do what he would swear to do. (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:translate_symaction]])

#and I will make you swear

This can be expressed as a command. AT: "and swear"

#swear by Yahweh

The term "swear by" means to use the name of something or someone as the basis or power on which the oath is made. AT: "promise me with Yahweh as your witness"

#the God of heaven and the God of the earth

"the God of heaven and earth." The words "heaven" and "earth" are used together to mean every thing that God created. AT: "the God of everything in heaven and earth" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_merism]])

#heaven

This refers to the place where God lives.

#from the daughters of the Canaanites

This refers to Canaanite females. AT: "from the Canaanite women" or "from the Canaanites"

#among whom I make my home

"among whom I live." Here, "I" stands for Abraham and all of his family and servants. AT: "among whom we live" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])

#But you will go

This can be stated as a command. AT: "Swear that you will go" or "But go"

#my relatives

"my family"