#The man

"The servant" (UDB)

#watched her

"watched Rebekah" or "watched the young woman"

#to see

Learning something is often spoken of as if it were seeing. AT: "to know" (UDB) or "to determine" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#had prospered his journey

"had fulfilled the purpose of his journey" or "had made his journey successful." You can make explicit what specifically the servant was trying to determine. AT: "was showing him the woman who would become Isaac's wife" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#or not

You can state clearly the understood information. AT: "or not prospered his journey" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_ellipsis]])

#camels

See how you translated this in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:24:10|24:10]].

#a gold nose ring weighing half a shekel

"a gold nose ring that weighed six grams" (UDB). The weight shows its' value. AT: "an expensive gold nose ring" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:translate_bweight]])

#two gold bracelets for her arms weighing ten shekels

"two gold bracelets for her arms that weighed 110 grams." The weight shows their size and value. AT: "two large gold bracelets for her arms" (UDB) (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:translate_bweight]])

#Whose daughter are you

"Who is your father"

#is there room in your father's house

"is there a place in your father's house"

#for us

Apparently other men went on this journey with Abraham's servant. Here "us" refers to the servant and those traveling with him. (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_exclusive]])

#to spend the night

This speaks about night time as if it were a commodity that a person could spend. AT: "where we can stay for the night" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])