#General Information:

Abraham's servant continues speaking to Rebekah's family.

#Perhaps the woman will not follow me.

This is something that could possibly happen. AT: "What if the woman will not come back with me." or "What should I do if the woman will not come back with me?" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_hypo]])

#before whom I walk

Serving Yahweh is spoken of as if Abraham were walking in Yahweh's presence. AT: "whom I serve" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#he will prosper your way

"he will make your journey successful"

#family line

"family"

#But you will be free from my oath if you come to my relatives and they will not give her to you. Then you will be free from my oath

This is a hypothetical situation that Abraham did not think was likely to happen. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_hypo]]) Possible meanings are 1) "There is only one way for you to be free from my oath: if you come to my relatives and they will not give her to you, then you will be free from my oath" or, 2) building on verse 40, "If you go to my father's family and ask for a girl, you will have done what I told you to do. If they will not give her to you, then you will be free from the oath you swore to me."

#you will be free from my oath

"you will be released from the oath you made to me." Not having to fulfill an oath is spoken of as if the person is free from an object to which he was bound. AT: "you will not have to do what you swore to me that you would do" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#if you come to my relatives

Different languages use the words come and go differently. AT: "if you arrive at my relatives' home" or "if you go to my relatives" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_go]])