#brought trouble on me

Causing someone to experience trouble is spoken of as if trouble were an object that is brought and placed on a person. AT: "caused great difficulties for me" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#to make me stink to the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites and the Perizzites

Causing the people in the surrounding areas to hate Jacob is spoken of as if Jacob's sons made him physically smell bad. This can be translated as a new sentence. AT: "You have made me repulsive to the Canaanites and the Perizzites" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#I am few in number ... against me and attack me, then I will be destroyed, I and my household

Here the words "I" and "me" refer to all of Jacob's household. Jacob only says "I" or "me" since he is the leader. AT: "My household is small ... against us and attack us, then they will destroy all of us" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_synecdoche]])

#gather themselves together against me and attack me

"form an army and attack me" or "form an army and attack us"

#then I will be destroyed

This can be stated in active form. AT: "they will destroy me" or "they will destroy us" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])

#Should Shechem have dealt with our sister as with a prostitute?

Simeon and Levi use a question to emphasize that Shechem did what was wrong and deserved to did. AT: "Shechem should not have treated our sister as if she were a prostitute!" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_rquestion]])