#Luz

See how you translated the name of this city in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:28:18|28:19]].

#in the land of Canaan. He blessed me and said to me

This can be translated with the new sentence starting in a different place. AT: "in the land of Canaan, and he blessed me. And he said to me"

#blessed

This refers to God pronouncing a formal blessing on someone.

#and said to me, 'Behold, I will make you fruitful, and multiply you. I will make of you an assembly of nations. I will give this land to your descendants as an everlasting possession.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "and said to me that he would make me fruitful and multiply me. And, he said that he would make me an assembly of nations and he would give this land to my descendants as an everlasting possession." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotesinquotes]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])

#Behold

God used the word "behold" here to alert Jacob to pay attention to what he was about to tell him.

#I will make you fruitful, and multiply you

The phrase "multiply you" explains how God would make Jacob "fruitful." AT: "I will give you very many descendants" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_doublet]] and [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_idiom]])

#I will make of you an assembly of nations

Here "you" refers to Jacob, but it stands for Jacob's descendants. AT: "I will make your descendants into many nations" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])

#an everlasting possession

"a permanent possession"