#Binding his young horse ... to the choice vine

Both statements mean the same thing. It is implied that the vines are so full of grapes that the master does not mind that his donkey eats some of them. (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_parallelism]] and [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#his ... he

Possible meanings for all occurrences of "his" or "he" are 1) they refer to Judah's descendants. AT: "their ... they" or 2) they  refer to the ruler in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:49:10|49:10]], which may refer to the Messiah.

#he has washed ... in the blood of grapes

Both statements mean the same thing. It implies that there are so many grapes that they can wash their clothes in the juice. (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_parallelism]] and [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#he has washed

Often in prophecy events that will happen in the future are described as something that has already happened in the past. This emphasizes that this event will certainly happen. AT: "they will wash" or "he will wash" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_pastforfuture]])

#the blood of grapes

This speaks about the grape juice as if it were blood. This emphasizes how red the juice is. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#His eyes will be as dark as wine

This compares the color of the person's eyes to the red color of wine. This implies that there will be so much wine made from the grapes. It is a common effect for a person's eyes to become red after drinking a lot of alcohol. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_simile]] and [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#his teeth as white as milk

This compare the color of the person's teeth to the white color of milk. This implies that there will be so many healthy cows they will have much milk to drink. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_simile]] and [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])