#came near to

"approached"

#let your servant

Judah refers to himself as "your servant." This is a formal way of speaking to someone with more authority. This can be stated in first person. AT: "let me, your servant" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_123person]])

#speak a word in my master's ears

Here "word" is a metonymy that stands for what is said. And "ear" is a synecdoche that stands for the whole person. AT: "speak to you, my master" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_synecdoche]])

#in my master's ears

Here "my master" refers to Joseph. This is a formal way of speaking to someone with more authority. This can be stated in second person. AT: "to you" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_123person]])

#do let your anger burn against your servant

Being angry is spoke of as if it were a burning fire. AT: "please do not be angry with me, your servant" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#for you are just like Pharaoh

Judah compares the master to Pharaoh to emphasize the great power that the master has. He is also implying that he does want the master to become angry and execute him. AT: "for you are as powerful as Pharaoh and could have your soldiers kill me" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#My master asked his servants, saying, 'Do you have a father or a brother?'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "My master asked us if we have a father or a brother." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotesinquotes]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])

#My master asked his servants

Judah refers to Joseph with the words "my master" and "his." He also refers to himself and his brothers as "his servants." AT: "You, my master, asked us, your servants" or "You asked us" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_123person]])