#General Information:

Judah continues to speak before Joseph

#And we said to my master, 'We have a father ... his father loves him.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "And we said to my master that we have a father ... his father loves him." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotesinquotes]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])

#we said to my master

Judah refers to Joseph as "my master." This is a formal way of speaking to someone with greater authority. AT: "we said to you, my master" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_123person]])

#his father loves him

This refers to love for a friend or family member.

#And you said to your servants, 'Bring him down to me that I may see him.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "And you said to your servants that we should bring our youngest brother to you so that you may see him" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotesinquotes]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])

#And you said to your servants

Judah refers to himself and his brothers as "your servants." AT: "Then you said to us, your servants" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_123person]])

#Bring him down to me

It was common to use the word "down" when speaking of traveling from Canaan to Egypt. AT: "Bring him to me"

#And we said to my master, 'The boy cannot ... father would die.'

This is a quotation within a quotation. It can be stated as an indirect quotation. AT: "And we said to my master that the boy cannot ... father would die." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotesinquotes]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])

#his father would die

It is implied that their father would die from sorrow. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])