#built an altar to Yahweh

"built an altar dedicated to Yahweh" or "built an altar for worshiping Yahweh." He may have built it with stones.

#clean animals ... clean birds

"Clean" means that God allowed these animals to be used in sacrifice. Some animals were not used for sacrifices and were called "unclean."

#offered burnt offerings

Noah killed the animals and then completely burned them up as an offering to God. AT: "burned the animals as offerings to Yahweh."

#pleasing aroma

This refers to the smell of the roasted meat.

#said in his heart

Here the word "heart" refers to God's thoughts and emotions.

#curse the ground

"do very serious harm to the earth" (UDB)

#because of mankind

This can be made more explicit: "because mankind is sinful." (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#the inclination of their hearts is evil from childhood

"from their earliest years they tend to do evil things" or "even when they are young, they want to do evil things"

#the inclination of their hearts

Here the word "hearts" refers to people's thoughts, emotions, desires, and will. AT: "their tendency" or "their habit."

#from childhood

This refers to an older child. AT: "from their youth."

#While the earth remains

"while the earth lasts" or "as long as the earth exists"

#seed time

"the season for planting"

#cold and heat, summer and winter

These expressions both refer to two major times in the year in terms of weather. Translators may use local expressions for referring to times of the year. (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_merism]])

#summer

the hot, dry time of the year

#winter

the cool, wet time of the year

#will not cease

"will not cease to exist" or "will not cease to occur." AT: "will continue."