#Your servant has found favor in your sight

To be pleased with someone is spoken as if "favor" were an object that is found. Also, "sight" is a metonym that stands for a person's thoughts or opinions. AT: "You have been pleased with me" (UDB) (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])

#Your servant has

Lot was showing respect by referring to himself as "your servant." AT: "I, your servant, have" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_123person]])

#you have shown me great kindness in saving my life

The abstract noun "kindness" can be stated as "kind." AT: "you have been very kind to me by saving my life" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_abstractnouns]])

#I cannot escape to the mountains, because the disaster will overtake me, and I will die

Being unable to get far enough away from Sodom when God destroys the city is spoken of as if "disaster" is a person that will chase and catch up with Lot. AT: "My family and I will certainly die when God destroys the people of Sodom, because the mountains are too far away for us to get there safely" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_personification]])

#my life ... I cannot escape ... overtake me, and I will die

It is implied that Lot's family would die along with him. AT: "our lives ... we cannot escape ... overtake us, and we will die" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#let me escape there (is it not a little one?), and my life will be saved

Lot used this rhetorical question to get the angels to notice that the city really is a small one. AT: "let me escape there. You can see how small it is. If you let us go there we will live" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_rquestion]])

#let me escape there

Lot's full request can be made explicit. AT: "instead of destroying that city, let me escape there" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#my life will be saved

It is implied that the lives Lot's family will be saved along with his. This can also be stated in active form. AT: "we will live if you let " (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])