#days of weeping

"days of mourning him" or "days of weeping for him"

#Joseph spoke to Pharaoh's royal court

Here "royal court" stands for the officials that make up Pharaoh's royal court. AT: "Joseph spoke to Pharaoh's officials" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])

#If now I have found favor in your eyes

The phrase "in your eyes" is a metonymy that stands for Jacob's thoughts or opinion.  AT: "If I have found favor with you" or "If you are pleased with me" (UDB) (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])

#found favor

This is an idiom that means that someone is approved of by someone else. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_idiom]])

#please speak to Pharaoh, saying, 'My father made me swear, saying, "See, I am about to die. Bury me in my tomb that I dug for myself in the land of Canaan. There you will bury me." Now let me go up and bury my father, and then I will return.'"

This has a two level quotation and three level quotation. These can be stated as indirect quotations. AT: "please tell Pharaoh that my father made me swear that after he dies I would bury him in the tomb that he dug for himself in the land of Canaan. Please ask Pharaoh to let me go bury my father, and then I will return." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotesinquotes]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_quotations]])

#See, I am about to die

"See, I am dying"

#let me go up

It was common to use the phrase "go up" when speaking of traveling from Egypt to Canaan.

#Pharaoh answered

It is implied that the members of the court spoke to Pharaoh, and now Pharaoh is replying to Joseph. (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_explicit]])

#as he made you swear

"as you swore to him"