#Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth

See how you translated these commands in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:01:28|1:28]]. This is God's blessing. He told Noah and his family to produce more humans like themselves, so that there would be many of them. The word "multiply" explains how they are to be "fruitful." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_doublet]] and [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_idiom]])

#The fear of you and the dread of you will be upon every living animal

"Every living animal will fear and dread you" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_idiom]])

#The fear of you and the dread of you

The words "fear" and "dread" mean basically the same thing and emphasize how afraid the animals will be of mankind. AT: "A dreadful fear of you" or "A terrible fear of you." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_doublet]])

#fear

This is the common fear every animal has of things that can harm them.

#dread

terror that comes from the threat of an enemy.

#every living animal

This is the first of the four groups that includes large animals, birds, creatures that are low to the ground, and fish. It is not a summary group that includes the other three kinds of living things.

#bird

This is a general term for things that fly. See how you translated this in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:01:20|1:21]].

#upon everything that goes low on the ground

This includes all types of small animals. See how you translated this in [[:en:bible:notes:gen:01:24|1:25]].

#They are given into your hand

The hand is a metonym for the control that the hand has. AT: "They are given into your control." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]]) This can be made active. AT: "I have put them under your control." (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])