#General Information:

Joseph continues interpreting Pharaoh's dreams.

#Seven years of famine will come after them

This speaks about the seven years of famine as if they are something that travels and comes to a place. AT: "Then there will be seven years when there is very little food" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#all the abundance will be forgotten ... and the famine will devastate the land. The abundance will not be remembered ... because of the famine that will follow

Joseph expresses an idea in two ways to emphasize its importance. (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_parallelism]])

#all the abundance will be forgotten in the land of Egypt

Here "land" refers to the people. This can be stated in active form. AT: "the people of Egypt will forget about the years in which there was plenty of food" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]] and [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])

#will devastate the land

Here "land" refers to the soil, the people, and the entire country. (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_metonymy]])

#because of the famine that will follow

This speaks about the famine as if it were a thing that travels and follows behind something else. AT: "because of the time of famine that will happen afterwards" (See: [[:en:ta:vol1:translate:figs_metaphor]])

#That the dream was repeated to Pharaoh is because the matter has been established by God

This can be stated in active form. AT: "God gave you two dreams to show you that he will certainly cause these things to happen" (See: [[:en:ta:vol2:translate:figs_activepassive]])